Document the new  `MSTest.Sdk` (#39498)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-mstest-sdk.md

---
title: MSTest SDK
author: MarcoRossignoli
description: Overview of MSTest.Sdk.
ms.author: mrossignoli
ms.date: 02/13/2024
---

# MSTest SDK

## Overview

`MSTest.Sdk` is an [MSBuild project SDK](/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk) for building MSTest apps.  
It's possible to build an MSTest app without this SDK, however, the MSTest SDK is:

> * Clear and coincise letting you to focus on your tests without the noise of the test infrastructure.

Author: I didn't want to copy as-is the asp.net one but if it's fine also to you we can keep it

> * Clear and coincise letting you to focus on your tests without the noise of the test infrastructure.

Reviewer: Their sentencing looks a little more marketing to me compared to ours :)

* Simple to configure.
* The recommended target for most users.

How to use the `MSTest.Sdk` in a project:

  ```xml
  <!-- 
       You can set a different sdk version, 3.3.0 is an example
       You can set the SDK version at solution level using the global.json
       Follow this guide:
       https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk?#how-project-sdks-are-resolved

>   -->

Reviewer: Might be better to move this comment as a note after the example.

  <Project Sdk="MSTest.Sdk/3.3.0">
    <PropertyGroup> 
        <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
    </PropertyGroup>
    <!-- references to the code to test -->      
  </Project>
  ```

> When you `build` the project all the needed components will be restored and installed using the standard NuGet workflow set by your project. Usually the components are downloaded from the official NuGet feed unless set differently.

Reviewer: I would drop the last part personally but let's gather some other opinions

```suggestion
When you `build` the project all the needed components will be restored and installed using the standard NuGet workflow set by your project.
```

Author: I think it's fine it's not super useful info.

You don't need anything else to build and run your tests and you can use the same tooling (i.e. `dotnet test`, Visual Studio etc...) used by a ["classic"](./index.md/#mstest) MSTest project.

> 

Author: > I would add a section with the default setup. What's out of the box when using MSTest SDK with no extra configuration? 

what you mean by default setup?

> I don't recall what the code is doing but IMO we should have TRX added by default and also MS Code coverage (we should be opinionated).

I was wondering if the "template" should have it to make it "clear" or have the "enable all" in it by deafult.

> 

Author: Discussed offline by default we will:
* enable the runner
* add trx and ms coverage

> ## `MSTest.Sdk` with the `MSTest runner`

Reviewer: I would change title to `MSTest runner related properties`

The `MSTest.Sdk` supports the [`MSTest runner`](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-intro.md) and simplify the configuration of extensions to make the experience easy and smooth.

How to use the `MSTest.Sdk` with the `MSTest runner` in a project:

  ```xml
  <Project Sdk="MSTest.Sdk/3.3.0">
    <PropertyGroup> 
        <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
        <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner> 

>         <OutputType>Exe</OutputType> 

Reviewer: I think this should be the default when using the SDK but let's bring it up to discussion.

Author: Do we have enough users/data to start with the runner in 3.3.0?

Author: discussed off line

    </PropertyGroup>
    <!-- references to the code to test -->
  </Project>
  ```

>  The `MSTest runner` comes with a set of built-in [extensions](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-extensions.md) that you can enable using an MSBuild property with the pattern `Enable[NugetPackageNameWithoutDots]`.  

Reviewer: Similar comment as on the first part of the code, I would have expected `a MSBuild property`.

>  For instance to enable the `MS Code Coverage` shipped as `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage` NuGet package you can use the property `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>`:  

Reviewer: If Code cov is enabled by default, we should use another example. Maybe hang dump or crash dump.

  ```xml
  <Project Sdk="MSTest.Sdk/3.3.0">
    <PropertyGroup> 
        <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
        <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner> 
        <OutputType>Exe</OutputType> 
    </PropertyGroup>

    <!-- Extensions -->
    <PropertyGroup>
        <EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>

>     </PropertyGroup>

Reviewer: I would not split that from main group, or if we do, I would put all mstest related configurations here.

| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.TrxReport` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsTrxReport>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsTrxReport>` |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CrashDump` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>` |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.HangDump` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHangDump>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHangDump>` |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.Retry` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsRetry>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsRetry>` |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.HotReload` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHotReload>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHotReload>` |

You can enable all the available extensions in "bulk" using the `<EnableAllTestingExtensions>true</EnableAllTestingExtensions>`

```xml
<Project Sdk="MSTest.Sdk/3.3.0">
    <PropertyGroup> 
        <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
        <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner> 
        <OutputType>Exe</OutputType> 
        <EnableAllTestingExtensions>true</EnableAllTestingExtensions>
    </PropertyGroup>
    
    <!-- references to the code to test -->
</Project>

> ```

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning how you can change the extension version.

Author: I was wondering to keep it "hidden" for now and add when we will have a "more use cases" if we're able to keep this file "clean" users will bump all and get always correct/updated extensions, so pin a version should be "discouraged" if not in case of bugs and the need of quick fix/usage. Most probably we will ship all MSTest if the bug it "huge blocking" also if it's from an extension, what you think?

---

> title: MSTest SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: MSTest SDK overview
```

author: MarcoRossignoli

> description: Overview of MSTest.Sdk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the MSTest.Sdk and how to configure profiles and extensions with MSBuild properties.
```

ms.author: mrossignoli
ms.date: 02/13/2024
---

> # MSTest SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# MSTest SDK overview
```

> 
> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

`MSTest.Sdk` is an [MSBuild project SDK](/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk) for building MSTest apps.  
It's possible to build an MSTest app without this SDK, however, the MSTest SDK is:

* Tailored towards providing a first-class experience for testing with MSTest
* The recommended target for most users.
* Yet easy to configure for others.

The MSTest SDK will discover and run your tests using the [`MSTest runner`](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-intro.md)

How to use the `MSTest.Sdk` in a project:

  ```xml
  <Project Sdk="MSTest.Sdk/3.3.0">
    <PropertyGroup> 
        <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
    </PropertyGroup>
    <!-- references to the code to test -->      
  </Project>
  ```

> [!NOTE]
> `/3.3.0` is given as example as it's the first version providing the SDK but it can be replaced with any newer version.

> > Alternatively, you can set the SDK version at solution level using the global.json, [follow this guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk?#how-project-sdks-are-resolved).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Alternatively, you can set the SDK version at solution level using the _global.json_. For more information, see [Use MSBuild project SDKs](/visualstudio/msbuild/how-to-use-project-sdk?#how-project-sdks-are-resolved).
```

When you `build` the project all the needed components will be restored and installed using the standard NuGet workflow set by your project.

> You don't need anything else to build and run your tests and you can use the same tooling (i.e. `dotnet test`, Visual Studio etc...) used by a ["classic" MSTest project](./unit-testing-with-mstest.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't need anything else to build and run your tests and you can use the same tooling (for example, `dotnet test` or Visual Studio) used by a ["classic" MSTest project](./unit-testing-with-mstest.md).
```

## Register extensions

>  The `MSTest runner` comes with a set of [extensions](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-extensions.md) that you can enable using an MSBuild property with the pattern `Enable[NugetPackageNameWithoutDots]`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `MSTest runner` comes with a set of [extensions](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-extensions.md) that you can enable using an MSBuild property with the pattern `Enable[NugetPackageNameWithoutDots]`.  
```

>  For instance to enable the crash dump shipped as `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CrashDump` NuGet package you can use the property `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>`:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to enable the crash dump extension in the [Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CrashDump](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CrashDump) NuGet package use the following property `EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump`:  
```

    </PropertyGroup>
    <!-- references to the code to test -->
  </Project>
  ```

### Available extensions

| Extension package | MSBuild property | 'Default' profile | 'AllMicrosoft' profile |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CodeCoverage` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCodeCoverage>` | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.TrxReport` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsTrxReport>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsTrxReport>` | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.CrashDump` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsCrashDump>` | ❌ | ✔️ |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.HangDump` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHangDump>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHangDump>` | ❌ | ✔️ |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.Retry` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsRetry>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsRetry>` | ❌ | ✔️ |
| `Microsoft.Testing.Extensions.HotReload` | `<EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHotReload>true</EnableMicrosoftTestingExtensionsHotReload>` | ❌ | ✔️ |

> The `MSTest.Sdk` simplifies the registration of extensions by including a pre-packaged set of them under different profiles, as shown in the table above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `MSTest.Sdk` simplifies the registration of extensions by including a pre-packaged set of them under different profiles, as shown in the preceding table.
```

> To choose a specific profile to enable, you can use the `TestingExtensionsProfile` MSBuild property.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable a specific profile, use the `TestingExtensionsProfile` MSBuild property.  
```
